{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Black;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Bahnschrift SemiBold;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Cascadia Mono SemiBold;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Cascadia Code SemiBold;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs52\lang9 TITLE \b0\f1\par
\fs32 Measuring the Pulse of Prosperity: An Index of Economic Freedom Analysis \b\f0\par
 \fs48 Team ID\f2 :\b0\f1\fs32 LTVIP2025TMID51497\par
\b\f0\fs48 Project Submitted by \par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b0\f1\fs32 Bodapati Suvarna\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Sinamareddi Sai\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Jagadam Dharani\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Padamati Swarupa Sanjana\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs48 Guided by \par
\b0\f1\fs32 Smart Internz, Mr.M.Ganesh Sir\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0 INTRODUCTION\f3 :\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\b0\f1\fs40 Measuring prosperity and freedom involves assessing various dimensions beyond traditional economic indicators. The "pulse of prosperity" can be understood through indices that incorporate factors like economic growth, social well-being, and individual freedom. Analyzing the "index of incoming freedom" requires examining indicators related to economic opportunity, personal liberties, and political participation. These indices provide a more holistic view of societal progress and can inform policy decisions to promote inclusive and sustainable development.\par
\par
\b\f0 REQUIRED SKILLS:\b0\f1\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj My SQL\fs22\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}\fs40 DATABASES \fs22\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}\fs40 TABLEAU\fs22\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}\fs40 SPREAD SHEET COLLECTION\fs22\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}\fs40 DATA VISUALIZING\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\par
\b\f0\fs40 PROCESS OF PROJECT:\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f4 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf4\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\f4 REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS\par
{\pntext\f4 2.\tab}PROJECT DESIGN\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f4 3.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf4\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj PROJECT PLANNING\par
{\pntext\f4 4.\tab}FUNCTIONAL & PERFORMANCE TESTING\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1 1.REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs36 Installing of MY SQL\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Installing of Tableau\f4\fs40\par

\pard\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1 2.PROJECT DESIGN\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 Collecting of Data\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Importing the Data set into Database\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Connecting Tableau to the Database server\b\f4\fs40\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\b0\lang1033 3.\b\lang9 PROJECT PLANNING\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 Data Visualation\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Dash board\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Story\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\f4\fs40\lang1033 4.\b\lang9 FUNCTIONAL & PERFORMANCE TESTING\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 Performance testing\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\b\f0\fs40 RESULT\b0\f5\fs32 :\par
\b\f4\fs40 ADVANTAGES\b0\f5\fs32 :\par
\b\f2\fs36 1. Comprehensive Assessment of Economic Policy\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 Measures multiple dimensions of economic freedom (rule of law, regulatory efficiency, open markets, government size).\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Encourages best practices in Governance, regulation, and fiscal discipline.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\b\f2\fs36 2. Global Comparability\par
\b0\f5\fs32 Applies a standardized methodology across countries, enabling direct comparisons of performance and progress over time.\par
\par
\b\f2\fs36 3. Policy Guidance Tool\par
\b0\f5\fs32 Used by governments, investors, and development organizations (like the Millennium Challenge Corporation) to:\par
Benchmark reform progress\par
Inform foreign aid decisions\par
Assess risk and opportunity\par
\b\f2\fs40 4.Transparency and Accountability\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 Makes data-driven Governance more accessible to civil society.\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}archers, and journalists.\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Highlights where countries are backsliding or improving\b\f2\fs40 .\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
5.Correlated with Prosperity\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 Studies show a strong empirical link between higher economic preedom and improved outcomes in:\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}GDP growth\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Health and education\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Reduction in poverty and inequality\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b\f2\fs40\par
6. Incentive for Reform\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 Countries often use their rankings as motivation for economic and legal reforms to improve their scores and attract investment.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\par
\f4\fs40 DISADVANTAGES:\par
\b\f2\fs36 1. Methodological Limitations\fs40\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 Equal weighting of indicators may not reflect their real-world impact (e.g., tax policy may not be as influential as judicial independence).\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Data gaps or outdated statisties in developing countries can lead to imprecise scoring.\f4\fs40\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\b\f2 2. Cultural and Ideological Bias\b0\f4\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs32 Critics argue that the index reflects neoliberal Western economic values, potentially ignoring culturally appropriate or alternative development models.\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Emphasis on deregulation and small government might undervalue social safety nets or alternative economic strategies (e.g., in Nordic or East Asian models).\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\f4\fs40\par
\b\f2\fs36 3. Overemphasis on Market Freedom\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0\f5\fs32 May neglect other critical dimensions of development, such as:\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Environmental sustainability\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Gender and social equity\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\b\f2\fs36 4.Politicization Risks\b0\f5\fs32\par

\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 Indexes can be misused in geopolitical debates or as tools to justify certain foreign policy agendas or investment patterns.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\b\f0\fs40 Conclusion:\b0\f5\fs32\par
Measuring the Pulse of Prosperity offers a powerful benchmarking tool that has helped raise awareness about the importance of economic freedom. However, its usefulness depends on how it's interpreted and applied. It is most valuable when used in conjunction with other measures (like the Human Development Index or environmental indicators) and with a nuanced understanding of each country's context.\par
\par
\b\f0 DATASET LINK:\par
\par
PROJECT DEMO LINK:\par
\par
GITHUB LINK:\par
\b0\f5\par
\f4\fs40\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\par
\par
\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\qj\par
}
 